SALIX

%%date(%b, %Y)

%!target: man
%!options(html): --mask-email --toc

%!encoding: UTF-8

%!postproc(html): <HEAD> '<HEAD>\n<STYLE>body{margin:3em;} pre{background:#ffc;}</STYLE>'


= SALIX =

This manual page allows you to read the minimum vital to use your
Salix Operating System.


= PACKAGE MANAGEMENT =

You have to be root to run these commands (su -)

:  **slapt-get --update**
Retrieves package data from MIRROR location.
:  **slapt-get --upgrade**
Upgrade installed packages if newer versions are available.
:  **slapt-get -i Package(s)**
Install package(s) from the mirrors.
:  **slapt-get --remove Package(s)**
Remove specified package(s)
:  **slapt-get --list**
List all packages, installed and available.
:  **slapt-get --search [expression]**
Search available packages. Applies POSIX and extended regular
expression to the names, versions, locations, and descriptions
of packages.
:  **slapt-src --update**
Retrieve SlackBuild data from SlackBuild source repositories.
:  **slapt-src --search [expression]**
Search available SlackBuilds.
:  **slapt-src -i SlackBuild(s)**
Build and install specified SlackBuilds.
:  **spkg -i /path/to/Package**
Installs single or multiple *.txz (or .tgz, .tlz, .tbz) binary
packages, designed for use with Salix or the Slackware Linux
distribution, that are stored locally, onto your system. The original
Slackware **installpkg** command can also be used.
:  **spkg -u /path/to/Package**
Upgrades a package from an older version to a newer one, using locally
stored package(s). The original Slackware **upgradepkg** command can
also be used.
:  **spkg -d package-name(s)**
Removes the specified package(s) from the system. The original
Slackware **removepkg** command can also be used.


= SALIXTOOLS =

:  **clocksetup**
A tool that helps set the system's date, time, timezone, hardware
clock and Network Time Protocol synchronization.
:  **dotnew**
Dotnew is a utility to help with the management of .new system
configuration files .dotnew uses dialog menus (or GTK if it is
installed and if you are running under X11) to present the user with
a menu for each new configuration file present in his system.
:  **keyboardsetup**
A tool that helps set the keyboard map to be used for the linux
terminal. It can also be used to set IBus or SCIM to be enabled or
disabled.
:  **localesetup**
A tool that sets the system's locale.
:  **servicesetup**
All available services in /etc/rc.d (cups, gdm, sshd, ...) can be
listed, stopped, started with this Dialog interface (or GTK if it is
installed and if you are running under X11).
:  **usersetup**
Users and Groups management can be done with this Dialog interface
(or GTK if it is installed and if you are running under X11).


= MODULES =

Modules are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the
kernel upon demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel
without the need to reboot the system.

:  **lsmod**
List all loaded modules.
:  **modprobe -v module**
Load module.
:  **rmmod -v module**
Unload module.
:  **echo "module_name" >> /etc/modprobe.d/file.conf**
Force the automatic loading of a module.
You can give the name you want to file.conf (ie. atboot.conf)
:  **echo "blacklist module" >> /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf**
Prevent loading of a module.


= WIRED/WIRELESS NETWORK CONNECTION MANAGER =

Wired and wireless network connection can be managed with one tool,
Wicd.
Wicd uses built-in linux wireless-tools, such as **ifconfig**
and **iwconfig** to get and configure network info.
Note that wicd and wireless must be activated in the startup
services in order to make wireless networks visible on Wicd.

You need a client to connect to it.
:  **wicd-gtk --no-tray**
This command start the GTK Wicd client without system tray icon.
:  **wicd-curses**
This command start the ncurses Wicd client. X11 is not needed.


= SALIX DEVELOPMENT =

:  **Translate**
You can help with translating various componenents of the distribution
using. Visit the following page for more details:
http://salixos.org/translate.html
:  **Package Submissions**
You can submit packages for inclusion in the Salix repositories using
our package submission tracker (but please read the wiki about package
building rules are submission guidelines first). You can find a link in
the salix main project page.
:  **Bugs/Wishes/...**
You can either use our bugtracker (you can find a link in the salix main
project page) or the Salix forums.


= ONLINE HELP =

:  **IRC**
Join the //#salix// channel on irc.freenode.net network.
:  **Jabber / XMPP**
Join the //salix// chatroom on the chat.meticul.eu network.
:  **Support Forum**
http://forum.salixos.org
:  **Mailing-List : salix-main AT lists.sourceforge.net**
Registration and archives :
https://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/salix-main


= SEE ALSO =

clocksetup(8), ifconfig(8), iwconfig(8), keyboardsetup(8),
localesetup(8), modprobe(8), modprobe.conf(5), pkgtool(8),
slapt-get(8), spkg(8), slapt-src(8), wicd(8)


= AUTHOR =

The salix manpage was originally written by Frederic Galusik
<fredg~at~salixos~dot~org> and subsequently edited by George Vlahavas
<vlahavas~at~gmail~dot~com>.


= COPYRIGHT =

Copyright (C) 2009-%%date(%Y) Salix OS.

This document is written under the WTFPL free licence -
Do What The Fuck You Want To Public License.
( http://sam.zoy.org/wtfpl/ )
